the attacks are in response to strikes
by the houthis on cargo ships in the Red
Sea the houthi say they're attacking
vessels Bound for Israel in support of
Palestinians well our defense
correspondent Jonathan Beal is here with
me this story has just broken Jonathan
what more do we know well all we have at
the moment is confirmation from two
unnamed us officials that Jets from the
US carrier in the Red Sea the USS
Eisenhower along with British Jets they
say have been taking part in strikes on
the houthis in Yemen uh we have not yet
had confirmation from Downing Street or
the mod that that has has happened but
you know remember this is the second
time that uh this coordinated action has
taken place it happened 10 days ago when
British Jets from RF ceria in Cyprus
which I think probably would have been
involved again took part with American
Le strikes against the houthi
specifically going over command and
control and also sites where they have
been uh storing manufacturing drones and
and missiles which they have been using
to Target Merchant shipping in the Red
Sea in the Gulf of aen and the Hope was
that initial set of strikes on the 12th
of January would stop them but they
haven't stopped they've carried on
fighting now in between then and now the
US has taken some limited unilateral
action just their own uh ships in in the
Red Sea firing trying to destroy what
they say aoui missiles about to be fired
this looks like it would have been you
know a lot more intelligence used like
the first time a coordinated attempt to
try to degrade at least the hou's
ability to do this the trouble is the
houthis show no sign of backing down at
the moment determined group who have
been fighting the Saudis and the other
thing to say is that you know the US and
the UK have been involved in this action
no other country have and that's I think
because they do not know what the end
game is here this tit fortat could go on
for weeks Jonathan thank you very much
Jonathan Beal there